
AN AXIOM ENVIRONMENT FOR EMACS
==============================

My intention in writing this software is to make it easier to work
with, and understand, the Axiom, OpenAxiom and FriCAS computer algebra
systems.  I am writing it to allow me to explore these systems and so
hopefully become more productive with them.  By publishing it I hope
that others too will be able to benefit from my efforts.

This software implements four different major modes for the Emacs text
editor:

  1. axiom-process-mode: for interaction with a running Axiom process.

  2. axiom-help-mode: for displaying help information about the Axiom
     system.
  
  3. axiom-input-mode: for editing a .input (Axiom script) file.

  4. axiom-spad-mode: for editing Axiom library code written in the
     SPAD language.

The main features of these modes (so far) are syntax highlighting to
display package, domain & category names and their abbreviations in
distinct colours, and quick access to popup buffers displaying summary
information about these types and their operations.  The former allows
to see at a glance which ``level'' of the type system we are concerned
with (domains or categories), and the latter allows us to examine (and
re-examine) these types without interupting our workflow
(i.e. interaction in the Axiom REPL).


INSTALLATION
============

To install the software the easiest thing to do is to clone the
mercurial repository (hosted at bitbucket.org) into your directory of
choice:

  cd /my/directory/of/choice

  hg clone http://hg@bitbucket.org/pdo/axiom-environment

then add the following line to your .emacs file:

  (load-file "/my/directory/of/choice/axiom-environment/axiom.el")

This will load the environment, automatically putting .spad and .input
files into ``Axiom SPAD'' and ``Axiom Input'' mode, respectively, and
giving access to an ``Axiom'' menu in these modes.

To exercise more control over how exactly the environment is setup,
please see the comments at the start of the ``axiom.el'' file.

To start an interactive Axiom session do:

  M-x run-axiom

Note that by default this will attempt to start the FriCAS program
(with command "fricas -nosman"), but that this can be changed using an
Emacs customization variable.  In fact many customization variables
exist, for different aspects of the environment, under the ``Axiom''
customization group.

An easy way of managing arbitrary collections of customization
variables is available via the Emacs ``theme'' mechanism.  An example
theme file showing how to setup the environment to work with FriCAS on
SBCL is included in the ``themes'' subdirectory of this distribution.


BUGS
====

Please note that development of this software started with Emacs 24.2
and it is quite likely that it won't work with earlier versions.

Also, the only testing so far is with FriCAS 1.1.8 compiled with SBCL
1.1.1 running on an old PPC MAC OSX laptop.  It hasn't yet received
any testing with Axiom or OpenAxiom because they don't compile on that
machine.  However, there should be no reason (as far as I know) for it
not working with these other flavours of Axiom on other machine
architectures, so I would consider it a bug if you encounter problems.

Please send bug reports to:

  Paul Onions <paul.onions@acm.org>

or click on the issue tracker tab at:

  http://bitbucket.org/pdo/axiom-environment/

and enter the details there.

--
Paul Onions
4 April 2013
